---
git-date:
layout: [blog, blog-amp]
title: "Potion"
permalink: potion
h1title: "Potion"
pagetitle: "Potion"
metadescription: "Potion"
category: blog
featured-image: /images/blog/
intro: ""
author: Defiprime
tags:  ["Interview"]
---


### Hello! What's your background, and what are you working on?

Potion is a web3 dapp that helps create automatic insurance markets where buyers and sellers come together and trade at mathematically sustainable prices. 

For example, I can buy Potion insurance on the price of Ethereum, locking a $3000 price insurance. If the price of Eth went below $3000, for example to $2500, the insurance would kick in, covering any loss below that price. In the example, a $500 payout. 

You can also take the other side in Potion, and be the one selling risk insurance (be an LP). As an LP with Potion you can take advantage of the Kelly Criterion to trade at optimal combinations of premium and utilization at all times, leading to long-term sustainable markets. 


### What's Potion backstory? 

We wanted to build an automated tail risk hedger. An automated smart contract that would constantly offset a certain portion of the left tail risk of your position. We realized there wasn’t any sustainable market maker that could act as a counter-party for such a robo-hedger. That became our v1 plan. Building a sustainable automatic market maker for risk insurance. We’d love for V2 to be the robo-hedger buying from it, but that will be decided by the community.

Beyond Potion and this first particular insurance application, more generally we believe it is  worthwhile spending energy imagining and building trustless financial applications. For the people, by the people. We have a humble aspiration to be contributing towards the betterment of society in our own small way.

It feels like an incredible privilege to be working in this industry.


### What went into building the Potion?

Building Potion was an incredibly tough effort. First we had to reach submit for Hackmoney, which was a small miracle in itself. Then we had to create a coherent vision to raise capital and retain key members after the hackathon. We were incredibly fortunate with the seed round we were able to close. With the backing of investors, we then had to attract new talent, to start building an internal culture and the project management discipline to ship robust and high quality software.

Our biggest challenge was first to develop an alternative to Black Scholes. We wanted a model we could genuinely believe would help LPs have an expectation of capital growth. The months of research were some of the most exciting and nerve-wracking of our lives. We were terrified we wouldn’t find an optimal bonding curve. In the end, when we did, and saw the first Kelly optimal curves finally emerge, it felt like a dream come true.

Besides the tech itself, our biggest challenge by far was legal. Finding a way to release the results  of our research without engaging in unlicensed regulated activity across many jurisdictions. This almost killed the project and the team, but in the end we persevered, and we found a way out of the problem. This was our second major break-through after coming up with the Kelly Machine, and we sincerely hope it can become a safe alternative for other dev teams in DeFi and contribute towards the flourishing of decentralized open source code.


### What's your business model?

We think of ourselves as digital artisans building for the web 3 trustless metaverse. We have spent nearly two years researching and building, and now want to share with the world, for anyone to build on and extend our work.

Our business model is a combination of many experimental models being trialed in the metaverse. We plan on generating revenue as a team by selling NFTs that commemorate the launches of our research. NFTs sales can be run in a fully compliant way, and allows us to generate revenues that can be used to help sustain our operational costs, pay back our debts, and keep us doing more exciting research in DeFi.

With regards to competition, we don’t see other derivatives platforms as competitors, but as co-creators. We are all building towards the same common good: cool reliable risk management markets in DeFi. In some sense, it doesn’t matter who gets there ultimately, the point is the same: for society to have a robust layer for trustless risk management.

Our differentiation angle with respect to the other tech out there is that we are maniacally focused on capital sustainability for the LPs. This is why we invested so heavily in implementing the Kelly Criterion on chain, which we believe nobody else is doing at the moment.


### What’s your position on the regulatory landscape today?

Derivatives trading is a highly regulated environment. We have consulted with two different European regulators, and both confirmed that the sale of NFTs is not to be considered a securities issuance, and that neither would the team retain liability for open-sourcing code, provided it doesn’t engage in active parametrization and de-facto management of the platform after release.

In this sense, we believe that we are working in complete compliance with existing regulation.


### What are your goals for the future?

Our first goal is to execute a flawless NFT minting experience, and to have fun hosting the Potion Unlock game. It is an experimental release strategy, and we are keen to make it the best experience possible for everyone who supports the project.

On the product side, we are excited about expirationless pay as you go insurance, and automated curve management, which are two big rocks for which we have really exciting ideas for, and that are a natural next step for this first release.


### What are your future thoughts for the DeFi market?

We really believe that Crypto and DeFi are a discontinuity moment in the history of civilization, and that it unlocks entirely new possibilities for us all. 

Natively digital trustless coordination between actors of society can unlock huge value for all, and . Governance and value store & transfer are two foundational elements in extending this new fabric of services, but it feels as though they are also just the beginning still.


### Where can we go to learn more?

* [Potion.fi](https://potion.fi/) to learn about the project 
* [Potion-unlock.fi](https://potion-unlock.fi/) to learn and participate in our NFT launch
* [Kelly.finance](https://kelly.finance/) to play with analytics
* Discord - [https://discord.com/invite/eVuQpSw](https://discord.com/invite/eVuQpSw)
* Twitter - [https://twitter.com/PotionLabs](https://twitter.com/PotionLabs)
* Medium - [https://medium.com/@PotionLabs](https://medium.com/@PotionLabs)